After being taken hostage, a romance-adventure novelist and her cover model team up to find The Lost City in this action-adventure comedy. Big-budget action-adventure romantic comedies feel like a thing of the past. I’m so glad that Paramount didn’t unload the film because it’s worth every penny seeing it in a movie theater. I know, I know–Covid is starting to surge again so chances are likely that you might be waiting for VOD. It’s perfectly understandable but if you do see it in theaters, it’s the shared experience is worth it. Loretta Sage (Sandra Bullock) is a romance-adventure novelist. Her archaeologist husband has been dead for some time but the two shared many adventures. She’s starting to promote her new book with cover model Alan (Channing Tatum), who does his best to actually be “Dash.” Eccentric billionaire Abigail Fairfax (Daniel Radcliffe) asks her for help because Loretta’s latest book deals with the treasure he wants. She doesn’t have any interest in helping him. The next thing you know she gets kidnapped. She has a smart watch so one way or another, a rescue will take place. Alan brings on Jack Trainer (Brad Pitt) for a rescue mission. Alan and Loretta must work together to survive. While all this is happening, the island’s volcano is active and could blow at any minute. It takes publishing The Lost City of D to provide Loretta the direction she needs in her life. I mean, she cannot even take Alan seriously until he plays a role in rescuing her. Is this something that happens often to cover models? Maybe but I don’t know because that’s not an area in which I’m familiar. Publisher/marketing guru Beth Hatten (Da’Vine Joy Randolph) is putting her all into this tour but meeting resistance from Loretta in every step of the process. Beth even brings on a social media manager, Allison (Patti Harrison), to work with Loretta. But anyway, Beth gets quite the arc of her own during the process of rescuing Loretta. A shut-in author and a model are the last people that should be stuck in the jungle. We’re talking about an environment that is far from their comfort zone. To think that there was a time when Sandra Bullock didn’t want to make the film. Factor in a pandemic and well, this is a film that we need right now. When you’re this deep into a pandemic, comedies are an essential genre. They make us laugh and this one in particular offers quite a bit of fun. Who doesn’t want to have fun when watching a movie? Let alone the escapism! If you give me a big-budget film that provides escapist entertainment, I’m not going to turn it down. Well, unless it involves antisemitic or transphobic bigots. Adam Nee and Aaron Nee come from the world of independent filmmaking. It’s not always easy making the jump to studio pictures but having a producer like Sandra Bullock makes the transition easier. She’s the type of producer who gives her all. Both Sandra Bullock and Channing Tatum have fantastic chemistry together. You can tell they’re also having fun and yet, you can’t help but notice the screwball energy going on. Well, when Daniel Radcliffe isn’t trying to kill them. Radcliffe is great in the role, too. It shows that he’s taking on more adult roles that couldn’t be further from that of a wizard. Meanwhile, Brad Pitt has a priceless cameo as ex-Navy SEAL Jack Trainer. If you think Bryce Dallas Howard running in heels in Jurassic World was bad, wait until you see the sparkly jumpsuit that costume designer Marlene Stewart provides for Sandra Bullock. I mean, it’s like having a flashback to 2015! There are costume designs that can make or break a career but Marlene Stewart’s work in The Lost City certainly could be her legacy. It also should be in the award conversation later this year. The Lost City gives us the escapist entertainment we need right now.